In this video, you're
going to learn about
Hidden Markov
models and you will
use them to decode the
hidden states of a word.
In our case, the hidden states
is just the parts of
speech of that word.
You will also learn about
emission probabilities in
this video. Let me show you.
The name Hidden Markov
model implies that
states are hidden or not
directly observable.
Going back to the
Markov model that has
the states for the
parts of speech,
such as noun, verb,
or other, you can now
think of these as
hidden states because
these are not
directly observable
from the text data.
It may seem a
little confusing to
think that this data is hidden.
Because if you look at a
certain word such as jump,
as a human who is familiar
with the English language,
you can see that this is a verb.
From a machine's
perspective, however,
it only sees the text jump
and doesn't know whether
it is a verb or a noun.
For a machine looking
at the text data,
what it's going to observe are
the actual words such
as jump, run, and fly.
These words are said to be
observable because they can
be seen by the machine.
The Markov chain model and
Hidden Markov model have
transition probabilities,
which can be represented by
a matrix A of dimensions
N plus 1 by N,
where N is the number
of hidden states.
The Hidden Markov model also has
additional probabilities known
as emission probabilities.
These describe the
transition from
the hidden states of your
Hidden Markov model,
which are parts of speech
seen here as circles
for noun, verb,
and the other, to
the observables or
the words of your corpus
shown here inside rectangles.
Here, for example, are
the observables for
the hidden states VB,
which are the words;
going, to, eat.
The emission probability
from the hidden states,
verb to the observable,
eat, is 0.5.
This means when the model is
currently at the hidden
state for a verb,
there is a 50 percent
chance that the
observable the model will
emit is the word, eat.
Here's an equivalent
representation of
the emission probabilities
in the form of a table.
Each row is designated for
one of the hidden states.
A column is designated for
each of the observables.
For example, the row
for the hidden state,
verb, intersects with
the column for the
observable, eat.
The value 0.5 is the
emission probability of
going from the states verb to
emitting the observable, eat.
The emission matrix represents
the probabilities for the
transition of your end
hidden states representing
your parts of
speech tags to the M
words in your corpus.
Again, the row sum of
probabilities is one.
What you might have
realized in this example
is that there are
emission probabilities
greater than
zero for all three of our
parts of speech tags.
This is because words can
have different parts of
speech tag assigned depending
on the context in
which they appear.
For example, the word
back should have
different parts of speech tag
in each of the sentences.
The noun tag for the sentence,
he lay on his back,
and the adverb tag
for, I'll be back.
A quick recap of
Hidden Markov models.
They consist of a
set of N states, Q.
The transition matrix A
has dimension N by N,
and the emission matrix
B has dimension N by
V. You have seen the notation
for Hidden Markov models.
You've also learned
how to compute
the transition and
emission probabilities.